---
Draft: true
CoverImage: cover-900x477.jpg
CoverImageType: image/jpeg
CoverImageWidth: 900
CoverImageHeight: 477
Description: A high level overview of the new TMZ mobile website created by Richard Sumilang.
Categories:
 - Etc
Tags:
 - TMZ
Title: TMZ Mobile Website. Version 2.
SubTitle: From the ground up.
Date: "2015-09-23T17:49:11-07:00"
---

As the head developer of the TMZ mobile website, I'm pleased to announce,
*Version 2*! It's been an exciting journey from start to finish. Take a look at
all the new features. I think you will like it.


## Disclaimer

The views and opinions shared in this article are those of the author's (Richard
Sumilang) and do not necessarily reflect TMZ, Telepictures, Warner Bros and any
staff member or affiliate.

<!--more-->

### My role

I'm a full time developer at TMZ. I work on TMZ products such as the desktop
site and internal applications. My current focus is enhancing the user
experience on the mobile website while bringing the technologies up to date with
modern standards. In other words, creating a brand new product.


### It's more than just a pretty face

The new site provides a new fun and modern interface to interact with TMZ's
content. It borrows designs from our native mobile applications so you feel at
home; but they have been optimized for the mobile web browsing experience. It's
lighter, faster, and full of new features.

The inside has been built from the ground up. While I would like to write a
series of articles detailing the various technologies I chose to build the
application, I will say ECMAScript 6 proved itself suitable as the front-end
language and I can't wait to continue upgrading the application to ECMAScript 7
and ECMAScript 8 in due time.


## Show me the features!

The first thing you will notice is a fresh skin. It's clean, intuitive, and as
I've mentioned, brings the familiarity you expect out of a mobile website.
The larger images help you find the content you are looking for and we continue
to load more articles into every feed as you scroll, keeping your browsing
experience smooth.


### Navigation Menu

On the top left we have a "hamburger" menu icon that easily lets you navigate to
each section of the site. From top to bottom we have the "Got a tip?" button
where you can submit any tips you have directly to TMZ. Following that we have
each of our site sections in big buttons easily clickable. Below that there is a
way for you to sign up and receive mobile alerts sent directly to your phone or
access access the TMZ show listings for your area. Or if you're feeling like
going on a tour then you can click the "TMZ Celebrity Tour" and reserve a spot
on the bus and tour hollywood.

Lastly, here is where you can click on the "Login / Register" button to be able
to comment on articles using your TMZ account.


## Got A Tip?

Calling TMZ directly is still an option by clicking the "Give us a call" button.
The new section now supports sending TMZ a direct email via a web form with the
ability to upload files from your phone.


## News

The news contains tabs to help you sort the content in your preferred order. For
example, this feed defaults to the **Latest** articles and provides you the
options of sorting by most **Popular** and the most **Commented** results. The
**Popular** tab labels each article with a number for it's popularity. The
**Commented** section similarly labels each article with the number of comments
per article.

### Article Page

Clicking an article thumbnail brings you to a beautiful view of the article that
is easy to read. The cover is usually either an image, video, or gallery. You
can tell what the media type is because there is either a large play button for
videos or gallery icon for galleries. You can click the primary media in the
cover to load the media right away or you can scroll down the article. As you
scroll you will notice buttons for sharing an article on your social networks
and the comment count next to the article details.

Within the article details there can be links to more related galleries, videos,
images, polls, and a number of other items (depending on what the content writer
chose to include).

Clicking on the comment bubble next to the article details or the large comment
count below the article will show load all the comments. You may log in here
using one of many social network authentications (Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, etc)
to share your thoughts. If you are already logged into the mobile website with
your TMZ account then you can comment immediately. Closing the comment page will
bring you back to the article.

Below you will find other related articles that you may find interesting. The
want more section will display buttons to bios of celebrities mentioned in the
article and buttons to categories of article that you may find interesting.

At the end you will see a link to the next article from the feed you came from.
If you did not land on the article page coming from a feed then you will not see
this feature.


## Videos

Featuring *Latest Videos* by default, TMZ now provides access to videos by
*Category*. Each video now has it's own page where you can share the current
video with your social networks and find other related videos that you might be
interested in watching next.


## Photos

Like all the other feeds, bigger images and easier scrolling. We're in a world
of smart phones these days and I think everyone browsing the photos page would
appreciate this. The takeaway from this section is the new galleries which you
can load by clicking any photo.

In the gallery, we use larger images to take up the whole viewport of your phone
to provide a richer experience. You can swipe your thumb on a photo to easily
navigate in the direction you want to go. There are also new sharing features
per photo and more gallery suggestions when reaching the end. I think you'll
like it.


## Sports

This feed is similar to the latest news feed but focuses on the *Sports*
category. You can also find sports articles while browsing other article feeds.
You will be able to easily tell the difference from a sports article by the
green swipe on the article.


## Celebs

Find the most trending celebrity by navigating to this feed section. The page
defaults to **Trending** and you can click on the **All** tab to find a specific
celebrity. The **All** section loads smaller thumbnails for faster scrolling.


### Celebrity Bio

Clicking on a celebrity will load up a detailed biography page where you can
find more information about a celebrity. From top to bottom, you can share the
celebrity information with your social network, read their bio, list photo
galleries featuring the celebrity, list videos features the celebrity, list
articles featuring the celebrity, and see the latest articles featuring the
celebrity. We also show related celebrities that you may be interested in
reading about.


## Shows

Broken up into three sections, TMZ, TMZ Live, and TMZ Sports. You can come to
this section and watch live streaming (for TMZ Live), full episodes, and clips
for any of your favorite shows on your mobile device. You may also use the
button on the bottom of the page to find local TV listings for your area.


## Search

Can't find what you're looking for? Try out the new search feature. It uses an
updated backend service to provide you more accurate results than before. From
the search page you will be able to find celebrities, articles, videos, and
galleries. Celebrities will be listed first and the other page types will be
mixed in the results. You can identify each page type by the icons on the
results.


# Try it out for yourself!

The site is live now. You can access it on your mobile device by going to
http://www.tmz.com or directly to http://m.tmz.com. This mobile website is a
huge improvement over the previous implementation and I'm proud to have my name
stamped on the face of it. Also, credits go to having an outstanding team. Many
thanks.
